# Project Summary
Multi-regional modeling is important and good. *Sompolinksy, Crisanti, and Sommers 1988* shows how, in the Ising limit, gain controls when chaos emerges (and where we get interesting non-trivial fixed points). Basic theoretical models (*Chaudhuri 2015, Mejias 2022*) show that sub-threshold gain can still produce these non-trivial fixed points (analogous to persistent activity) when connected in accordance to biological constraints. Biological constraints are classified as follows: gradients of connectivity feedforward (*Elston 2000, 2011*), structured connectivity feedback (*CIB work from Meijias 2022, Barone 2000*), and anatomical constraints (*Markov 2010, 2014*). These models also produce integration behavior in higher-level regions. 

*Our role:* We are interested in seeing if this is possible with more advanced models for each region (i.e. make each region a Sompolinsky model). Are attractors still distributed throughout the system as in *Mejias 2022*?

Furthermore, there is work characterizing the chaotic activity of singular Sompolinsky networks in the Engelken paper. Most importantly, it describes the relationship between dimensionality and entropy with respect to gain and the Lyapunov spectrum. It would be important to see how these values change within each individual region in a multi-regional network (e.g. how does the spectrum transform in multi-regional networks and where a region is along the hierarchy? How does dimensionality and entropy change?) David Clark’s work shows how unconstrained low-rank connectivity (via *Semedo et al 2019*) between Sompolinsky networks parameterizes the different dynamical regimes in which the overall network can lie in, particularly with how chaos within a region can be gated or not (and its implications on communications). However, *Clark and Beiran* fail to show any chaotic attractors, which suggests that maybe the connectivity constraints are key. *Chaudhuri 2014* gives us tools to study the eigenvalue/eigenvectors localized to particular regions within a network. 

*Our role:* We are interested in combining the single-network Lyapunov analysis of *Engelken et al 2023* with the multi-regional analysis of *Chaudhuri 2014* and *Clark and Beiran 2024*. In other words, how can we use the full Lyapunov spectrum to study the behavior of a multi-regional network? How do differences localize to different parts of the network? We are particularly interested in seeing whether biological constraints are necessary for chaotic attractors to emerge.

# Codebase
spectrum.py is the foundational code. spectrum.py calculates a singular Lyapunov spectrum given parameters of the kind of network, the activation function, the gain, and the rate-time constant. spectrum.py also calculates the Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy and the Kaplan-Yorke attractor dimensionality and stores it into data as a pickled dictionary. spectrum.py also generates

utils.py contains the Lyapunov() object upon which the spectrum can be calculated the way spectrum.py is set up. This allows you to run multiple parameterizations in one runtime (each parameterization getting its own object). utils.py also contains the functions to get the entropy and attractor dimensionalities given a descending-ordered Lyapunov spectrum.